#summary How to interface with Javascript

There are a number of ways to talk to Javascript code and objects from OCaml:

===External functions===

You can call Javascript functions in the same way you call C
primitives in ordinary OCaml, by declaring them `external`. Put the
external functions in a file foo.js, and add foo.js to the link
line. The names of the primitives are read out of the Javascript file;
any name after `var` or `function` at the beginning of the line is
included.

You can also use special `external` declarations to avoid having to
write trivial wrapper functions for Javascript field accesses and
method calls. The following special prefixes to the function name are
recognized:

|| *prefix* || *compiles to* ||
|| #        || method call   ||
|| .        || read slot     ||
|| =        || assign slot   ||
|| @        || function call for builtin function, not checked against primitives||

The object-related prefixes expect the object as the first
argument. For example, if you declare `external foo : bar -> unit
= "#foo"` and call `foo b`, that compiles
to `b.foo()`.

Finally, there are several special `external` symbols which produce
Javascript syntax when compiled. They can also help you to avoid
trivial wrappers in some cases. They expect particular OCaml syntax as
arguments (they are recognized at compile time). But see below for
inline Javascript, which is a better way to do it if your Javascript
is bigger than tiny.

|| *symbol* || *expects args * || *compiles to* ||
|| $assign  || [lvalue; expression] || lvalue = expression ||
|| $call    || function::args || function(args) ||
|| $false   || unused || false ||
|| $fieldref || [expression; id] (id as string) || expression.id ||
|| $function || [function] || underlying Javascript function ||
|| $hashref || [expression1; expression2] || expression1[expression2] ||
|| $new || id::args (id as string) || new id(args)</td> ||
|| $new id || args || new id(args) ||
|| $null || unused || null ||
|| $obj || alist of ids and expressions || object literal ||
|| $this || unused || this ||
|| $throw || expression || throw expression ||
|| $true || unused || true ||
|| $var || id (as string) || id ||

The `$new id` symbol uses the native name argument to external,
e.g. `external "$new" "Foo" : unit -> foo`. See comp_ccall
in src/jscomp/jsgen.ml to see exactly what they do.

Most of these are available in the [Ocamljs] library, or you can
declare them yourself with `external` (sometimes that's more
convenient if you want more accurate types).

===Object wrappers===

It's possible to call methods on Javascript objects using the OCaml
method call syntax. For example, `document#getElementById "foo"`
becomes `document.getElementById("foo")`. You can also access the
properties of an object with specially-named methods,
e.g. `style#_get_background` and `style#_set_background "#ffffff"`.

There are some other special cases to accomodate the mismatch between
OCaml and Javascript naming rules and reserved words: a leading
underscore is dropped so you can use capitalized method names
(e.g. `o#_QueryInterface`); a trailing `_.*_` is dropped so you can
give multiple types to the same method when the Javascript interface
is more dynamically-typed than can be accomodated in OCaml
(e.g. `canvas#createPattern` vs. `canvas#createPattern_canvas_`); you
can use either of these to deal with reserved words (e.g. `_open` or
`end__`).

To get these uses to typecheck, of course, you need to operate on an
object of the appropriate type. It's easiest to write down an
interface as a `class type`, then magic your Javascript object to that
type, or get the object using a function or method with a polymorphic
return value (such as `Ocamljs.var` or `Dom.document#getElementById`)
and ascribe the type. See the [Dom] and [Mozilla] libraries for
examples.

It should be mentioned that types given this way are only advisory in
two senses: first, you have to ascribe the correct types; second, if
an object is given as input to a Javascript method or function, it may
not be nominally the type that's expected even if it structurally has
the right shape (e.g. a DOM object must be an actual DOM object, not
just an object with the same methods). In both these cases there can
be a dynamic failure at the Javascript level that's not caught at
compile time.

A final caveat is that partial application does not work for native
methods; a partial application causes an immediate call to the method
with the arguments you provide. (Partial application works for
functions called via `external`, because the OCaml compiler wraps an
OCaml function around them.)

===Inline Javascript===

A final way to talk to Javascript is to use inline code. This is
implemented with Camlp4 and [Jslib]: the inline Javascript is parsed
into data structures which are interpreted by the compiler. So you
need to compile with Camlp4 and the `jslib.inline` package, then open
`Ocamljs.Inline` to get the AST types. Then to get an inline
expression use an `<:exp< >>` or `<< >>` quotation, or an inline
statment with `<:stmt< >>` (XXX did I actually implement this?). You
can use antiquotations to refer to OCaml expressions.

Caveats: this is all experimental, and the Jslib parser is
incomplete. But you can see a small example in `src/stdlib/random.ml`.

===Callbacks===

The calling convention for an OCaml function is a little bit different
from regular Javascript, to support partial application and tail calls
(see [Jscomp]), so if you want to pass an OCaml function to Javascript
you need to wrap it using `Ocamljs.jsfun`. For example,
`Dom.window#setTimeout` takes a `(unit -> unit) Ocamljs.jsfun`, so if
you have `f : unit -> unit` you pass `Ocamljs.jsfun f`. There are also
`jsfun2`-`jsfun5` if you have more arguments.
